# Sexism and Computer Science
## An Atrocity Exhibition

### DRAFT
### Garrison LeMasters
### Georgetown University
### Apr 2015
### Not for distribution

It bears prefacing this ongoing and arbitrary list with an observation:  None of these rise to the level of demanding any concrete and immediate action.  Moreover, few of them, taken singly, even warrants an afternoon of soul-searching.  As a tiny, arbitrary, and idiosyncratic sample of what appears to be a deeply-bound and pervasive attitude, though, these individual instances sting:  They are alarming, and dispiriting.

 None of the people to whom I make reference deserve any sort of punishment, or even criticism.  We are, all of us, the children of history, and even our contemporary heroes (e.g., Washington, Jefferson) are guilty of appalling affronts to human decency.  Which is why moral judgments are best left to the divinities of your choice, and why our lot is best served by pragmatic thought.  And so this record merely intends to help us make better sense of the situation in which we all find ourselves, so that we may begin to set things right.

 ## Evidence

 I have, on more than one occasion, used the following negative example in class:  "My mother, for example, is baffled by technology, and prefers to avoid her laptop altogether.  She recently canceled her Internet subscription.  For years, in spite of lots of ad hoc tutorials, trainings, late-night phone support, and Post-It cheat sheets, she simply refused to interface with either hardware or software because she feared "breaking it."  Indeed, she cannot talk about her use of a computer without drawing on the metaphor of physical fragility.

 ### Interpretation
 Only recently, on a feminist blog, did I run across a critique of this common trope, one to which I have turned more than once.  The gist:  A male authority figure wishes to warn his audience away from a common attitude towards technology, and draws on (most typically) his mother or mother-in-law, or (occasionally) his wife as the negative example in the story.  I should add that I've seldom -- if ever -- mocked my mother for that attitude, although I've probably poked gentle fun.  That is characteristic, too, from what I can tell:  The bad agent in this trope is never a bungler, never incompetent.  But they are, always, women, and they are, always, unenlightened.  When I read a short description of the story on the feminist blog -- a story in which I immediately saw myself -- I allowed that my tale wasn't a flattering story, but it was not mean-spirited, it was true, and so what could one do?  Reflecting on the matter, however, brought me to a startling revelation:  My father, one-time COBOL programmer and dbAdmin, who bought for my brother and me probably dozens of computers, at least 5 dot-matrix printers, half a dozen CRTs and a couple of LCDs, keyboards, mice, trackpads, touchpads, analog video-in hardware, thousands upon thousands of blank CDs, DVDs, and floppy disks, and hundreds of hours of online connectivity; my father, who (as far as I can tell) "liberated" several microcomputers from the naval base where he worked, bringing them home for my brother and me to learn on; my father, who let me subscribe to Byte ("the Computer Systems Journal") as a 10-year old, and who funded the purchase of an astonishing number of reference guides (from the 6502 to the 80386), assembly language programming guides, and write-your-own-adventure-game books; who chastised and chided my mother for her fear of her laptop and her clumsiness with a mouse; my father:  In his life, the man never learned how to use a computer, either.  He understood mainframes, and minicomputers, and he certainly could log into Windows and slog about through the web.  But it was never intuitive, and it was almost always fraught with error, confusion, and anger.  I loved my father, and I owe him a great deal:  But two years after his death in 2009, I'd come to recognize that if all things *were truly equal*, my mother's suitability to that narrative would pale in comparison to my father's.
